Better Explain State Across All Develop (#1251)
near/docs: docs/2.develop/lock.md

---
id: lock
title: Locking Accounts
---

Removing all [full access keys](../4.tools/cli.md#near-delete-key-near-delete-key) from an account will effectively **lock it**.

When an account is locked nobody can perform transactions in the account's name (e.g. update the code or transfer money).

#### How to Lock an Account
```bash
near keys <dev-account>
# result: [access_key: {"nonce": ..., "public_key": '<key>'}]

near delete-key <dev-account> '<key>'
```

#### Why Locking an Account
Locking an account brings more reassurance to end-users, since they know no external actor will be able to manipulate the account's
contract or balance.

:::tip Upgrading Locked Contracts

> Please do note that, while no external actor can update the contract, the contract **can still upgrade itself**. See [bellow](#programmatically-updating-contracts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please do note that, while no external actor can update the contract, the contract **can still upgrade itself**. See [this article](upgrade.md#programmatically-updating-contracts) for details.
```
